(DOCSP-37438): Added details about persisting data. (#303)
mongodb/docs-atlas-cli: source/atlas-cli-deploy-docker.txt

         mongosh mongodb://root:root@localhost:27778/?directConnection=true

Persist Data Across Runs with Docker Compose
--------------------------------------------

> You can persist data across multiple runs with Docker Compose.

Reviewer: Suggestion: can we mention why they might want to do this/what the advantages are? Does this mean they can see the commands they ran from last time they used the CLI, or something else?

Also, are there prereqs for this, like having the Docker image, etc?

Author: @mmarcon, can you confirm the prereqs? I installed Docker and started Docker and installed docker-compose. Anything else?

Reviewer 2: The advantage of persisting data is that it remains available across runs of docker compose. If this is a development environment, for example, it's useful so you don't need to see the cluster with test data every time.

No prereqs, it's all taken care of by having the named docker volumes mounted and the logic inside `entrypoint.sh` does the rest.

.. procedure::
   :style: normal

>    .. step:: Create a script to start and stop your local deployment.

Reviewer: I was testing this process and created this script and ran the command to make it executable by me, but it doesn't seem we actually have them run the script in this procedure. When I tried to follow the procedure to Create a Local Deployment with Docker Compose, I got the error "Failed to execute script docker-compose" (filed a separate ticket for that: https://jira.mongodb.org/browse/DOCSP-37759)... as a result I could not test the rest of this tutorial.

Does Docker run it automatically if you have Docker as a prereq? Do you need to save the file in a specific location to do that?

Author: @mmarcon, can you clarify how the script the works? Do we need a step for manually running it?

Reviewer 2: @sarahsimpers you don't run the script. It is mounted inside the container and it is run automatically when the Docker container is started (see the related entry in the `docker-compose.yaml` file).

In terms of prereqs, you need to have Docker installed. [Here](https://www.mongodb.com/docs/atlas/cli/stable/atlas-cli-deploy-docker/#create-a-local-atlas-deployment-with-docker-compose) we also suggest having `docker-compose` installed, which is fine. But for a while, I believe that hasn't been necessary as you can also do `docker compose up` (`compose` as a subcommand of `docker` instead of its own command).

Author: @mmarcon, do users also need to pull down the latest `mongodb/atlas` docker image like they do in the first procedure?

Author: @mmarcon confirmed via Slack: "no. When you do docker compose up , the image is pulled down automatically from docker hub."

         ``entrypoint.sh``:

         .. code-block:: sh

            #!/bin/bash
            stop_atlas() {
              echo "Stopping Atlas deployment..."
              atlas deployments stop
            }
            start_atlas() {
              echo "Starting Atlas deployment..."
              atlas deployments start
            }
           trap 'stop_atlas' SIGTERM SIGINT
           deployment_status=$(atlas deployments list | grep 'LOCAL')
           if [[ -z "$deployment_status" ]]; then
             echo "No local deployment found. Setting up..."
             atlas deployments setup dev --bindIpAll --username root --password $LOCALDEV_PASSWORD --type local --port 27017 --force
           else
             if [[ $deployment_status == *"STOPPED"* ]]; then
               start_atlas
             fi
           fi
           while true
           do
             tail -f /dev/null & wait ${!}
           done

      #. Run the following command to make the script executable only 
         by you:

         .. code-block:: sh

            chmod u+x entrypoint.sh

   .. step:: Update your ``docker-compose.yaml`` file.

>       a. Update the ``docker-compose.yaml`` file to mount the ``data`` 
>          directory as a volume.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
      a. Update the ``docker-compose.yaml`` file to mount the necessary data 
         directories as a volumes.
```

Apologies, I forgot to make this small tweak in the google doc when we adjusted the compose file.

         mongosh mongodb://root:root@localhost:27778/?directConnection=true

Persist Data Across Runs with Docker Compose
--------------------------------------------

You can persist data across multiple runs with Docker Compose. 
Persisting data helps to ensure that data isn't lost between runs. Data 
remains available across runs of Docker Compose.

.. procedure::
   :style: normal

   .. step:: Install and start Docker.

      To learn more, see the `Docker documentation <https://docs.docker.com/desktop/install/mac-install/>`__.

   .. step:: Install Docker Compose.

      **Example:**

      .. code-block:: sh

         brew install docker-compose

   .. step:: Create a script to start and stop your local deployment.

>       a. Copy and paste the following script and name the file

Reviewer: Just confirming, it doesn't matter where they save this on their machine, right?

Reviewer 2: it does matter. It has to be in the same location as `docker-compose.yml`.

      a. Update the ``docker-compose.yaml`` file to mount the necessary 
         data directories as volumes.

         **Example:**

         .. code-block:: sh
            :linenos: 
         
            services:
              mongo:
                image: mongodb/atlas
                privileged: true
                volumes:
                  - data-cni:/etc/cni
                  - data-containers:/var/lib/containers
                  - ./entrypoint.sh:/entrypoint.s
                ports:
                  - 27017:27017
                environment:
                  - LOCALDEV_PASSWORD={your-password}
            volumes:
              data-cni:
              data-containers:

      #. Replace the ``{your-password}`` variable in the example with 
         your password and save the file.

      To learn more about the available options, see 
      :ref:`atlas-deployments-setup`.

   .. step:: Run Docker Compose.

      The following command creates a local |service| deployment with 
      |fts| capabilities enabled. It also returns a connection string.

      **Example:**

      .. code-block:: sh

         docker-compose up

>       You can also run Docker Compose in detached mode.

Reviewer: Suggestion: link to a definition so they can learn the difference
```suggestion
      You can also run Docker Compose in `detached mode <https://docs.docker.com/reference/cli/docker/compose/up/#options>`__.
```
